update README and docs to current project status (#118)
NetherlandsForensicInstitute/asmtransformers: asmtransformers/README.md

================

Binary code similarity models using Transformers. Pronounced: _awesome transformers_.

> The actual model can be found [here](https://huggingface.co/NetherlandsForensicInstitute/Multilingual-ASMBERT)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The actual model can be found [on Hugging Face](https://huggingface.co/NetherlandsForensicInstitute/Multilingual-ASMBERT)
```

Background
----------
Inspired by [jTrans](https://github.com/vul337/jTrans), which implements a _jump-aware_ BERT-model for x86-assembly code
similarity.

> For details on jTrans see Wang, Hao, et al. "Jtrans: Jump-aware transformer for binary code similarity detection." 

Reviewer: Title for that paper is referenced on their github as 

```suggestion
For details on jTrans see Wang, Hao, et al. "JTrans: Jump-Aware Transformer for Binary Code Similarity Detection" 
```

_Proceedings of the 31st ACM SIGSOFT International Symposium on Software Testing and Analysis_. 2022.

This project started focussed on implementing the concepts from jTrans for ARM-assembly code in a clean and concise way

> (see release v.1.0.0). The current version of this repo consists of the code to train, finetune and evaluate a 

Reviewer: There's no dot after the v?

```suggestion
(see release v1.0.0). The current version of this repo consists of the code to train, finetune and evaluate a 
```

> multilingual model of ARM64, AMD64, RISC-V and I386 assembly code.

Reviewer: Maybe best to keep references to the same the same

```suggestion
multilingual model of amd64, arm64, i386 and riscv64 assembly code.
```

Dataset
-----

The dataset is built on the official [Debian Repository](https://wiki.debian.org/DebianRepository). To obtain multiple families of
assembly, we used `apt` to cross-build the same source package to multiple architectures. The idea is that this gives us 
the same functions for all four architectures. For all four architectures, these functions are compiled with different optimisation:
O0, O1, O2, O3, Os and manually selected set with advanced instructions further referenced here as Oc for Optimised-Custom.
This results in a maximum of 24 (6 optimisation * 4 architectures) different functions 

> which are semantically similar. (i.e. they represent the same functionality but are written differently)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
which are semantically similar. (i.e. they represent the same source code but are compiled differently)
```

In practise, it was much easier to obtain amd64 functions than riscv64 functions. Thus, not all functions have 24 semantically similar functions.

The dataset is split into a train, test and an evaluation set. This in done on source package, so all binaries and functions belonging to one source package are part of
either the train or the test set, not both.

> #### Total amount of functions per architecture

Reviewer: This is a 4th level header after a 2nd level, should this not be 3rd?

```suggestion
### Total amount of functions per architecture
```

| Architecture | # functions|
|--------------|------------|
| amd64        |8 202 164|
| i386	        |4 868 531|
| arm64	       |4 421 768|
| riscv64	     |3 791 434 |

> -------------------------

Reviewer: Table is a curious mix between aligned and collapsed syntax, maybe pick one?

```suggestion
| Architecture | # functions|
|--------------|------------|
| amd64        |  8 202 164 |
| i386	       |  4 868 531 |
| arm64	       |  4 421 768 |
| riscv64	   |  3 791 434 |
-----------------------------
```

```suggestion
| Architecture | # functions|
|--------------|------------|
| amd64 |8 202 164 |
| i386 |4 868 531 |
| arm64 |4 421 768 |
| riscv64 |3 791 434 |
----------------------
```

Pretraining
-----------
For cluster-oriented multi-architecture pretraining with CUDA bf16 mixed precision, see
[docs/pretraining.md](docs/pretraining.md). Run `scripts/pretrain.py --help` for the full current CLI.

    usage: scripts/pretrain.py [-h] [--model-path MODEL_PATH] [--data DATA] [--tokenizer TOKENIZER] [--config CONFIG] [--epoch EPOCH] [--max-steps MAX_STEPS] [--batch-size BATCH_SIZE] [--gradient-accumulation-steps GRADIENT_ACCUMULATION_STEPS] [--save-steps SAVE_STEPS] [--logging-steps LOGGING_STEPS] [--mlm-prob MLM_PROB]
                   [--learning-rate LEARNING_RATE] [--warmup-steps WARMUP_STEPS] [--bf16] [--tf32] [--dataloader-num-workers DATALOADER_NUM_WORKERS] [--save-total-limit SAVE_TOTAL_LIMIT] [--eval-samples EVAL_SAMPLES] [--seed SEED] [--resume-from-checkpoint RESUME_FROM_CHECKPOINT] [--run-id RUN_ID]

>                    output_dir

Reviewer: These lines are silly long, should we maybe use a specific width terminal to collect this usage string?

```suggestion
    usage: pretrain.py [-h] [--model-path MODEL_PATH] [--data DATA] [--tokenizer TOKENIZER] [--config CONFIG]
                   [--epoch EPOCH] [--max-steps MAX_STEPS] [--batch-size BATCH_SIZE]
                   [--gradient-accumulation-steps GRADIENT_ACCUMULATION_STEPS] [--save-steps SAVE_STEPS]
                   [--logging-steps LOGGING_STEPS] [--mlm-prob MLM_PROB] [--learning-rate LEARNING_RATE]
                   [--warmup-steps WARMUP_STEPS] [--bf16] [--tf32] [--dataloader-num-workers DATALOADER_NUM_WORKERS]
                   [--save-total-limit SAVE_TOTAL_LIMIT] [--eval-samples EVAL_SAMPLES] [--seed SEED]
                   [--resume-from-checkpoint RESUME_FROM_CHECKPOINT] [--run-id RUN_ID]
                   output_dir

```

Cosine distance) than the anchor and the negative examples. We use [BatchSemiHardTripletLoss](https://sbert.net/docs/package_reference/sentence_transformer/losses.html#batchsemihardtripletloss)
to train the model.

> Our multilingual model can be found on [Huggingface](https://huggingface.co/NetherlandsForensicInstitute/Multilingual-ASMBERT)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our multilingual model can be found on [Hugging Face](https://huggingface.co/NetherlandsForensicInstitute/Multilingual-ASMBERT)
```

> You can also find our monolingual, ARM64BERT semantic search model on Huggingface:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also find our monolingual, ARM64BERT semantic search model on Hugging Face:
```

(curious, why is this an explicit anchor instead of a markdown link? 🤔

Prerequisites
-------------

> TO DO: check python version, I thought we were 3.13 now

Reviewer: Correct, all (sub)projects require 3.13 at the moment, there was something odd that broke with 3.14, not sure what anymore though...
